## Feature selection
-[Why, How and When to apply Feature Selection](https://towardsdatascience.com/why-how-and-when-to-apply-feature-selection-e9c69adfabf2)

Feature Selection is a very critical component in a Data Scientist’s workflow. When presented data with very high dimensionality, models usually choke because
1. Training time increases exponentially with number of features.
2. Models have increasing risk of overfitting with increasing number of features.

Three feature selection techniques:
1. Filter Methods
2. Wrapper Methods
3. Embedded Methods.


-[Introduction to Feature Selection methods with an example (or how to select the right variables?)](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2016/12/introduction-to-feature-selection-methods-with-an-example-or-how-to-select-the-right-variables/)

- [Machine Learning with Signal Processing Techniques](http://ataspinar.com/2018/04/04/machine-learning-with-signal-processing-techniques/)


- Normalization:
  - Z-score
     - [Z-score normalization](https://t4tutorials.com/z-score-normalization-data-mining/)
     - [How raw data are normalized](http://howto.commetrics.com/methodology/statistics/normalization/)
  - What are the best normalization methods (Z-Score, Min-Max, etc.)? How would you choose a data normalization method? On [ResearchGate](https://www.researchgate.net/post/What_are_the_best_normalization_methods_Z-Score_Min-Max_etc_How_would_you_choose_a_data_normalization_method)
  - About Feature Scaling and Normalization – and the effect of standardization for machine learning algorithms, [by Sebastian Raschka](https://sebastianraschka.com/Articles/2014_about_feature_scaling.html)  
  - EMG normalization
    - Normalization of EMG Signals: To Normalize or Not to Normalize and What to Normalize to? [By Mark Halaki and Karen Ginn](https://www.intechopen.com/books/computational-intelligence-in-electromyography-analysis-a-perspective-on-current-applications-and-future-challenges/normalization-of-emg-signals-to-normalize-or-not-to-normalize-and-what-to-normalize-to-)
	  - **Analysis of the frequency content of the EMG signal**: In this type of analysis, the power spectrum of the EMG signal can be obtained by applying a Fast Fourier Transform to the EMG signal. The power density function of the EMG provides a distribution of the signal power as a function of frequency. Changes in the shape of the power density function of the EMG is usually analysed and shifts in the power density to lower frequencies is associated with fatigue. Since the shape of the power spectra is what is important, the amplitude of the EMG signal is not critical and EMG normalization is not required.
      - **Decomposition of the EMG into wavelets for an analysis of motor unit firing patterns, or cross talk between muscles**: In this analysis, the EMG signal is decomposed into small wavelets (small waveforms). The wavelets are then used to identify and characterize motor unit action potentials by compressing and/or rescaling the wavelets and identifying them in the EMG signal. Again, the amplitude of the EMG signal is not critical and EMG normalization is not required.
      - **Time of the initiation of muscle activation**: This type of analysis does not require EMG normalization as the time of activation is usually identified from the raw signal e.g. when the raw EMG signal amplitude reaches 2 [10] or 3 [11] standard deviations of the mean above baseline levels.
      - **Amplitude comparisons of signals** from a given muscle between short term interventions/movements within an individual in the same session under the same experimental conditions without changes to the EMG electrode set-up [12] e.g. when comparing the EMG signal between different interventions/movements in a given muscle in each individual [13-16]. Because the absolute amplitude of the signal is meaningless, one cannot evaluate the level of activity in the muscle, but only that it is more or less active in one intervention/movement compared to the other. Therefore, comparison of muscle activity levels between muscles or individuals is not valid. 
      - *3.1.1. Maximal voluntary isometric contractions*: 
	    - The most common method of normalizing EMG signals from a given muscle uses to the EMG recorded from the same muscle during a **maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC)** as the reference value [19-23]. The process of normalization using MVICs is that a reference test (usually a manual muscle test) is identified which produces a maximum contraction in the muscle of interest. Based on the repeatability between tests measures, it is recommended that at least 3 repetitions of the test be performed separated by at least 2 minutes to reduce any fatigue effects [12]. The EMG signals are then processed either by high-pass filtering, rectifying and smoothing or by calculating the root mean square of the signal. The maximum value obtained [12] from the processed signals during all repetitions of the test is then used as the reference value for normalizing the EMG signals, processed in the same way, from the muscle of interest. This allows the assessment of the level of activity of the muscle of interest during the task under investigation compared to the maximal neural activation capacity of the muscle [24-26]. 
		- Provided that maximum neural activation is achieved in all muscles and individuals tested, using MVICs is a highly reliable method to normalize EMG data and can be used to compare activity between muscles, between tasks and between individuals. To achieve the maximum neural activation in all muscles and individuals, sets of MVIC tests that produce maximum activation in each muscle need to be identified. The highest value recorded for each muscle from at least 3 attempts at these MVIC tests should be used as the normalization value to ensure that the recorded values reflect maximum neural activation levels. 
	  - 3.1.2. The maximum activation obtained during the task under investigation performed at maximum effort
        - To reduce the possibility of obtaining normalized EMG levels during a task greater than 100%, investigators have used the EMG obtained during the task under investigation performed at maximum effort as the normalization value. For example, maximum EMG recorded during isometric shoulder abduction has been used to normalize the EMG during submaximal abduction [65], maximum crunch exercise for submaximal crunch exercise [66], maximum sprinting for normalizing the EMG during walking [44, 67] and maximum sprint cycling for normalizing the EMG during cycling [38].
        - Although highly reliable, the use of this method to normalize EMG data to compare muscle activation levels between individuals and between muscles in the task being investigated is not valid. In addition, because this reference value is task dependent, it cannot be used to compare muscle activation levels between different tasks.      
	 - **Summary**: In summary, only the normalization method that uses MVICs as the reference level can be validly used to compare muscle activity levels and activation patterns between muscles, tasks and individuals, provided that maximum neural activation is achieved in all muscles and individuals tested. The use of peak or mean activation levels obtained during the task under investigation as the reference EMG level can be used to compare patterns of muscle activation between individuals over time with high reliability but does not allow comparisons of activity levels between muscles, tasks or individuals. The normalization methods of submaximal isometric contractions or maximum activation during the task under investigation performed at maximum effort also do not allow valid comparisons of muscle activity levels between muscles or individuals, and in addition, muscle activation patterns between individuals are potentially more variable because different individual motor control strategies may be used. Finally, the use of maximum activation levels obtained under maximum effort during dynamic contraction and the M-max methods to normalize EMG signals are associated with low within subject reliability and cannot be recommended.
      - **EMG Normalization in clinical populations**:If symptomatic individuals are unable to elicit maximal contractions, e.g. as a result of pain due to illness or injury, then comparisons between these clinical populations and normal subjects can only be made using normalization to peak or mean activation levels obtained during the task under investigation. Under these circumstances comparisons of activity levels between muscles, between tasks and between individuals are not valid. Only comparison of muscle activation patterns between normal and symptomatic individuals can be made. 
